### Description

This is the placeholder for an article about politeness in biblical literature. This article is still being developed.


#### Reasons This Is a Translation Issue:

Text

### Examples From the Bible

Luke 7:6 "do not trouble yourself" (written before we had a politeness placeholder, so no support reference) The centurion is speaking politely to Jesus through these friends. Your language may have a comparable expression that you can use in your translation. Alternate translation: “I do not want you to go out of your way”

Luke 14:18 "I ask you, have me excused" (figs-idiom) In this culture, this was a polite formula for declining a social invitation. If your language has a similar formula, you could use it in your translation. Alternate translation: “Please accept my apology for not being able to attend”

Acts 23:26 "to the most excellent Governor Felix" (writing-politeness, before honorific) The expression most excellent was a formal title by which people addressed Roman officials. Your language and culture may have a comparable title that you can use in your translation. Alternate translation: “to the Honorable Governor Felix” (similarly in 26:25)

> May I find favor in your eyes, my lord, since you have comforted me, and since you have spoken to the heart of your female servant. (Ruth 2:13 ULT)
Ruth is referring to herself as Boaz's servant to show respect to him. She is not actually one of his servants. If it would be helpful in your language, you could make that clear. Alternate translation: “one who is as lowly as a servant”

### Translation Strategies

Text

### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied

Text
